docs/visualization_assets/README.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: EQFE Visualization Assets
---

# Visualization Assets

This directory contains schematic diagrams and visualization aids for the Environmental Quantum Field Effects (EQFE) project.

## Available Visualizations

1. `amplification_mechanism.md` - Schematic diagrams of the quantum correlation amplification mechanism
2. `field_correlation_dynamics.md` - Visualization of field correlation dynamics and their effects

## Usage Guidelines

These visualizations are provided to aid in understanding the theoretical concepts and experimental results of the EQFE project. When using these visualizations in presentations or publications:

1. Cite the original EQFE research appropriately
2. Maintain the scientific accuracy of the information presented
3. Include relevant mathematical expressions alongside visual representations

## Markdown Rendering

The visualizations in this directory use Markdown with embedded ASCII diagrams and equations formatted with LaTeX. For optimal viewing:

- Use a Markdown viewer that supports LaTeX math rendering
- For presentations, consider exporting to PDF or HTML
- For publications, convert the diagrams to vector graphics

## Contributing

To contribute additional visualizations:

1. Follow the existing style and format
2. Include explanatory text with scientific context
3. Ensure all diagrams are backed by mathematical foundations
4. Submit via pull request following the project contribution guidelines

Commit message:

Added interactive Plotly visualizations and collapsible LaTeX blocks

docs/visualization_assets/README.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: EQFE Visualization Assets
---

# Visualization Assets

This directory contains schematic diagrams and visualization aids for the Environmental Quantum Field Effects (EQFE) project.

## Available Visualizations

1. `amplification_mechanism.md` - Schematic diagrams of the quantum correlation amplification mechanism
2. `field_correlation_dynamics.md` - Visualization of field correlation dynamics and their effects

## Usage Guidelines

These visualizations are provided to aid in understanding the theoretical concepts and experimental results of the EQFE project. When using these visualizations in presentations or publications:

1. Cite the original EQFE research appropriately
2. Maintain the scientific accuracy of the information presented
3. Include relevant mathematical expressions alongside visual representations

## Interactive Visualizations

The visualizations in this directory are now fully interactive using Plotly.js:

- **Mouse over elements** to see detailed data points
- **Use the sliders** to adjust parameters and see real-time changes
- **Explore different regimes** by manipulating field masses, temperatures, and coupling strengths

These interactive features help develop intuition about quantum field effects in complex environments.

## Technical Implementation

- Visualizations use Plotly.js for interactive charts and diagrams
- LaTeX equations are properly formatted and made collapsible for better readability
- Mobile-responsive design ensures visualizations work on all devices

## Contributing

To contribute additional visualizations:

1. Follow the existing style and format
2. Include explanatory text with scientific context
3. Ensure all diagrams are backed by mathematical foundations
4. Submit via pull request following the project contribution guidelines
